let's start with the United Nations
Secretary General Antonio gutterz he's
called for an immediate humanitarian
access to the Gaza Strip where supplies
of essential food water and Medicine are
dwindling fast speaking at the Raffa
Crossing between Egypt and the Gaza
Strip where more than a 100 trucks
including the initial Convoy of 20 are
waiting for the green light to drive
into Gaza Mr gutes pleaded for them to
be allowed to move to the other side
here's some of what he said so these
trucks are not just
trucks they are a
Lifeline they are the difference between
life and death for so many people in
Gaza and to see them stuck here makes me
be very clear what we need is to make
them
move to make them move to the other side
of this wall to make them move as sque
quickly as possible and as many as
possible recently it was announced by
Israel and by the United States that
humanitarian Aid would be allowed to
enter
Gaza and I know that there is also an
agreement between Egypt and Israel to
make it
possible but these announcements were
made with some conditions this must be a
sustained effort we are not looking for
a one Convoy to come we are looking for
convoys to be authorized in a meaningful
numbers
of trucks to go every
day Aid agencies have described the
situation inside Gaza as Beyond
catastrophic hospitals are running out
of medicine and fuel for their
generators
Food Supplies are very low and some
people have only dirty water to drink
more than a million civilians have been
displaced some who had been unable to
find shelter in the South are now
returning to the devastated North Hamas
Health officials say
3,800 people have been killed in
continuing bombing Egypt says it has
opened its side of the crossing but
Israel said the timing of the delivery
was yet to be determined it's thought
only 20 trucks will initially be
permitted to cross humanitarian workers
say this is far short of what's needed
describing it as a drop in the ocean